Add troubleshooting document (#2700)
Azure/typespec-azure: website/src/content/docs/docs/migrate-swagger/faq/mustread.md

---
title: Understanding the Must-have Breaking Changes
---

To fully leverage the benefits of TypeSpec and follow best practices, there are some unavoidable breaking changes you will encounter after migrating from Swagger to TypeSpec.

## Using Resources from Common Types

If your resource definition already extends from a resource type in [common-types](https://github.com/Azure/azure-rest-api-specs/tree/main/specification/common-types/resource-management), you can skip this section. Otherwise, you should understand how we identify resource models and select appropriate base models from the TypeSpec resource manager library.

> A model is identified as a resource when it meets **all** of the following criteria:

Reviewer: A model is a resource if it is registered with ARM as a resource.

Author: I'm expaining how we decide a model in a swagger as a resource model in TypeSpec.

> A model is identified as a resource when it meets **all** of the following criteria:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An ARM Resource model should extend one of the typespec common-types Resource models when it meets **all** of the following criteria:
```

1. There is a GET operation for the model.
2. At least one operation returns a 200 response containing this model.

> 3. The model has properties named `id`, `name`, and `type`.

Reviewer: 'id' , 'name',  and 'type'  have to do with when you can use common types, not whether a type is a resource.

Once a model is identified as a resource, we represent it by extending an appropriate [resource model](../../howtos/ARM/resource-type.md#modeling-resources-in-typespec) from the TypeSpec library. This results in differences between your original Swagger and generated Swagger like:

```diff
"YourResource": {
  "type": "object",
  "properties": {
    "properties": {
      "$ref": "#/definitions/YourResourceProperties",
    }
  },
  "allOf": [
    {
-      "$ref": "#/definitions/YourOwnProxyResourceDefinition"
+      "$ref": "../../../../../common-types/resource-management/v3/types.json#/definitions/ProxyResource"
    }
  ]
}
```

We recommend accepting this change to align with ARM conventions. However, if you have a strong business justification to keep your original definition, you can use the `@customAzureResource` decorator to mark your model.

```tsp

> model YourResource extends YourOwnProxyResourceDefinition {

Reviewer: Note that the model doesn't necessarily need to extend anything.  Also, if they use this pattern, they will need to suppress the linting rule for legacy decorators.

Author: Yes, should we figure out a way since our goal is to remove the suppression?

  properties: YourResourceProperties;
}

@Azure.ResourceManager.Legacy.customAzureResource
model YourOwnProxyResourceDefinition {
  @key
  @path
  @segment("yourSegment")
  name: string;
}
```

## Using Page Model from Azure.Core Library

For all pageable response models, we highly recommend using `Azure.Core.Page` to align with ARM conventions:

```tsp

> model YourPageableModel is Azure.Core.Page<YourItemType>;

Reviewer: When possible, Resource lists should use `ResourceListResult`, using the Azure.Core pageable should only be necessary for non-resource types

```

This makes the `value` property in `YourPageableModel` required, and the type of the `nextLink` property becomes `url`. If you need to keep the previous shape, define `YourPageableModel` as a regular model.

> ## Misuse of "readOnly" on Model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Handling "readOnly" in Model Schemas
```

  "properties": {
    "properties": {
      "$ref": "#/definitions/YourResourceProperties",
    }
  },
  "allOf": [
    {
-      "$ref": "#/definitions/YourOwnProxyResourceDefinition"
+      "$ref": "../../../../../common-types/resource-management/v3/types.json#/definitions/ProxyResource"
    }
  ]
}
```

Accept this change to align with ARM conventions. If there is a strong business justification to keep the original definition, use the `@customAzureResource` decorator to mark the model.

```tsp
model YourResource extends YourOwnProxyResourceDefinition {
  properties: YourResourceProperties;
}

@Azure.ResourceManager.Legacy.customAzureResource
model YourOwnProxyResourceDefinition {
  @key
  @path
  @segment("yourSegment")
  name: string;
}
```

## Using Page Model from Library

By default, pageable operations use `Azure.ResourceManager.ResourceListResult<YourResource>`, which generates a response model named `{YourResource}ListResult`. This follows ARM conventions and is the recommended approach for most ARM resource operations:

```tsp
@armResourceOperations
interface YourResources {
  @doc("List all resources")
  list is ArmResourceListByParent<YourResource>;
}
```

> Both default `Azure.ResourceManager.ResourceListResult` make the `value` property in `{YourResource}ListResult` required, and the type of the `nextLink` property becomes `url`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Azure.ResourceManager.ResourceListResult` makes the `value` property in `{YourResource}ListResult` required, and the type of the `nextLink` property becomes `url`. 
```
